Windows Administration and Support Standard Operating Procedure

Version 1.0

Effective Date: 5/16/2023

1. Purpose:
   Procedure for maintaining and administrating windows operating systems

2. Responsibilities:
   Ensure that windows is up to date
   Ensure that windows is securely configured
   Make sure that anything the user may need is installed and user friendly
   
3. Definitions and Abbreviations:
   Windows: Computer operating system developed by microsoft
   
4. Procedure:
   When logged on go the windows start button and click the cogwheel second from the bottom, or the "Settings" option. Then scroll to the bottom and click "Updates and Security". Update if available
   While in that same window click "Windows Security" option in the panel of the left. On the right side of the window click on any option that saids "Actions recommended"
   Review any users request for changed settings or software to download
   
5. Safety Considerations:
   Make sure the admin password is not displayed anywhere and can not be logged into by non admin users
   Make sure other users do no have admin priveleges for their accounts
   Run already installed antivirus such as malwarebytes or the native windows defender to check for malware on the computer
   When downloading any files triple check to verify that they are from legitmate sources
   Check to see if the firewall is running

6. Troubleshooting and Problem Solving:
   Always look for an error code to help solve the problem
   Double check that you are on an admin account
   If you get a permission error when editing or deleting a file make sure that you have priveleges for that file. This is done by right clicking on the file and selecting "Properties". Click the "Security" tab and click "Edit" from here you can see who can do what to the file 

   [Address common issues or challenges that may arise during the process. Provide step-by-step instructions or guidance on how to resolve problems effectively.]
7. References:

   [Include any supporting documents, manuals, or guidelines that are relevant to the procedure. Provide a list of external references or sources used in creating the SOP.]
8. Revision History:
   Gerald 5/16/2023 1.0: First version/draft

9. Approval:
   Gerald
   
